Jane Eyre - Charlotte Bronte　　

　　CHAPTER I

　　--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

　　THERE was no possibility of taking a walk that day. We had beenwandering, indeed, in the leafless shrubbery an hour in the morning;but since dinner (Mrs. Reed, when there was no company, dined early)the cold winter wind had brought with it clouds so sombre, and arain so penetrating, that further outdoor exercise was now out ofthe question.

　　I was glad of it: I never liked long walks, especially on chillyafternoons: dreadful to me was the coming home in the raw twilight,with nipped fingers and toes, and a heart saddened by the chidingsof Bessie, the nurse, and humbled by the consciousness of myphysical inferiority to Eliza, John, and Georgiana Reed.

　　The said Eliza, John, and Georgiana were now clustered roundtheir mama in the drawing-room: she lay reclined on a sofa by thefireside, and with her darlings about her (for the time neitherquarrelling nor crying) looked perfectly happy. Me, she haddispensed from joining the group; saying, 'She regretted to be underthe necessity of keeping me at a distance; but that until she heardfrom Bessie, and could discover by her own observation, that I wasendeavouring in good earnest to acquire a more sociable andchildlike disposition, a more attractive and sprightly manner-something lighter, franker, more natural, as it were- she reallymust exclude me from privileges intended only for contented, happy,little children.'

　　'What does Bessie say I have done?' I asked.

　　'Jane, I don't like cavillers or questioners; besides, there issomething truly forbidding in a child taking up her elders in thatmanner. Be seated somewhere; and until you can speak pleasantly,remain silent.'

　　A small breakfast-room adjoined the drawing-room, I slipped inthere. It contained a bookcase: I soon possessed myself of a volume,taking care that it should be one stored with pictures. I mounted intothe window-seat: gathering up my feet, I sat cross-legged, like aTurk; and, having drawn the red moreen curtain nearly close, I wasshrined in double retirement.

　　Folds of scarlet drapery shut in my view to the right hand; tothe left were the clear panes of glass, protecting, but not separatingme from the drear November day. At intervals, while turning over theleaves of my book, I studied the aspect of that winter afternoon.Afar, it offered a pale blank of mist and cloud; near a scene of wetlawn and storm-beat shrub, with ceaseless rain sweeping away wildlybefore a long and lamentable blast.

　　I returned to my book- Bewick's History of British Birds: theletterpress thereof I cared little for, generally speaking; and yetthere were certain introductory pages that, child as I was, I couldnot pass quite as a blank. They were those which treat of the hauntsof sea-fowl; of 'the solitary rocks and promontories' by them onlyinhabited; of the coast of Norway, studded with isles from itssouthern extremity, the Lindeness, or Naze, to the North Cape-

　　'Where the Northern Ocean, in vast whirls,

　　Boils round the naked, melancholy isles

　　Of farthest Thule; and the Atlantic surge

　　Pours in among the stormy Hebrides.'

　　Nor could I pass unnoticed the suggestion of the bleak shores ofLapland, Siberia, Spitzbergen, Nova Zembla, Iceland, Greenland, with'the vast sweep of the Arctic Zone, and those forlorn regions ofdreary space,- that reservoir of frost and snow, where firm fieldsof ice, the accumulation of centuries of winters, glazed in Alpineheights above heights, surround the pole and concentre themultiplied rigours of extreme cold.' Of these death-white realms Iformed an idea of my own: shadowy, like all the half-comprehendednotions that float dim through children's brains, but strangelyimpressive. The words in these introductory pages connected themselveswith the succeeding vignettes, and gave significance to the rockstanding up alone in a sea of billow and spray; to the broken boatstranded on a desolate coast; to the cold and ghastly moon glancingthrough bars of cloud at a wreck just sinking.

　　I cannot tell what sentiment haunted the quite solitary churchyard,with its inscribed headstone; its gate, its two trees, its lowhorizon, girdled by a broken wall, and its newly-risen crescent,attesting the hour of eventide.

　　The two ships becalmed on a torpid sea, I believed to be marinephantoms.

　　The fiend pinning down the thief's pack behind him, I passed overquickly: it was an object of terror.

　　So was the black horned thing seated aloof on a rock, surveying adistant crowd surrounding a gallows.

　　Each picture told a story; mysterious often to my undevelopedunderstanding and imperfect feelings, yet ever profoundly interesting:as interesting as the tales Bessie sometimes narrated on winterevenings, when she chanced to be in good humour; and when, havingbrought her ironing-table to the nursery hearth, she allowed us to sitabout it, and while she got up Mrs. Reed's lace frills, and crimpedher nightcap borders, fed our eager attention with passages of loveand adventure taken from old fairy tales and other ballads; or (asat a later period I discovered) from the pages of Pamela, and Henry,Earl of Moreland.

　　With Bewick on my knee, I was then happy: happy at least in my way.I feared nothing but interruption, and that came too soon. Thebreakfast-room door opened.

　　'Boh! Madam Mope!' cried the voice of John Reed; then he paused: hefound the room apparently empty.

　　'Where the dickens is she!' he continued. 'Lizzy! Georgy!(calling to his sisters) Joan is not here: tell mama she is run outinto the rain- bad animal!'

　　'It is well I drew the curtain,' thought I; and I wishedfervently he might not discover my hiding-place: nor would John Reedhave found it out himself; he was not quick either of vision orconception; but Eliza just put her head in at the door, and said atonce-

　　'She is in the window-seat, to be sure, Jack.'

　　And I came out immediately, for I trembled at the idea of beingdragged forth by the said Jack.

　　'What do you want?' I asked, with awkward diffidence.

　　'Say, "What do you want, Master Reed?"' was the answer. 'I want youto come here;' and seating himself in an armchair, he intimated by agesture that I was to approach and stand before him.

　　John Reed was a schoolboy of fourteen years old; four years olderthan I, for I was but ten: large and stout for his age, with a dingyand unwholesome skin; thick lineaments in a spacious visage, heavylimbs and large extremities. He gorged himself habitually at table,which made him bilious, and gave him a dim and bleared eye andflabby cheeks. He ought now to have been at school; but his mama hadtaken him home for a month or two, 'on account of his delicatehealth.' Mr. Miles, the master, affirmed that he would do very well ifhe had fewer cakes and sweetmeats sent him from home; but the mother'sheart turned from an opinion so harsh, and inclined rather to the morerefined idea that John's sallowness was owing to over-application and,perhaps, to pining after home.

　　John had not much affection for his mother and sisters, and anantipathy to me. He bullied and punished me; not two or three times inthe week, nor once or twice in the day, but continually: every nerve Ihad feared him, and every morsel of flesh in my bones shrank when hecame near. There were moments when I was bewildered by the terror heinspired, because I had no appeal whatever against either hismenaces or his inflictions; the servants did not like to offendtheir young master by taking my part against him, and Mrs. Reed wasblind and deaf on the subject: she never saw him strike or heard himabuse me, though he did both now and then in her very presence, morefrequently, however, behind her back.

　　Habitually obedient to John, I came up to his chair: he spentsome three minutes in thrusting out his tongue at me as far as hecould without damaging the roots: I knew he would soon strike, andwhile dreading the blow, I mused on the disgusting and ugly appearanceof him who would presently deal it. I wonder if he read that notion inmy face; for, all at once, without speaking, he struck suddenly andstrongly. I tottered, and on regaining my equilibrium retired back astep or two from his chair.

　　'That is for your impudence in answering mama awhile since,' saidhe, 'and for your sneaking way of getting behind curtains, and for thelook you had in your eyes two minutes since, you rat!'

　　Accustomed to John Reed's abuse, I never had an idea of replying toit; my care was how to endure the blow which would certainly followthe insult.

　　'What were you doing behind the curtain?' he asked.

　　'I was reading.'

　　'Show the book.'

　　I returned to the window and fetched it thence.

　　'You have no business to take our books; you are a dependant,mama says; you have no money; your father left you none; you oughtto beg, and not to live here with gentlemen's children like us, andeat the same meals we do, and wear clothes at our mama's expense. Now,I'll teach you to rummage my bookshelves: for they are mine; all thehouse belongs to me, or will do in a few years. Go and stand by thedoor, out of the way of the mirror and the windows.'

　　I did so, not at first aware what was his intention; but when I sawhim lift and poise the book and stand in act to hurl it, Iinstinctively started aside with a cry of alarm: not soon enough,however; the volume was flung, it hit me, and I fell, striking my headagainst the door and cutting it. The cut bled, the pain was sharp:my terror had passed its climax; other feelings succeeded.

　　'Wicked and cruel boy!' I said. 'You are like a murderer- you arelike a slave-driver- you are like the Roman emperors!'

　　I had read Goldsmith's History of Rome, and had formed my opinionof Nero, Caligula, etc. Also I had drawn parallels in silence, which Inever thought thus to have declared aloud.

　　'What! what!' he cried. 'Did she say that to me? Did you hearher, Eliza and Georgiana? Won't I tell mama? but first-'

　　He ran headlong at me: I felt him grasp my hair and my shoulder: hehad closed with a desperate thing. I really saw in him a tyrant, amurderer. I felt a drop or two of blood from my head trickle down myneck, and was sensible of somewhat pungent suffering: these sensationsfor the time predominated over fear, and I received him in franticsort. I don't very well know what I did with my hands, but he calledme 'Rat! Rat!' and bellowed out aloud. Aid was near him: Eliza andGeorgiana had run for Mrs. Reed, who was gone upstairs: she now cameupon the scene, followed by Bessie and her maid Abbot. We were parted:I heard the words-

　　'Dear! dear! What a fury to fly at Master John!'

　　'Did ever anybody see such a picture of passion!'

　　Then Mrs. Reed subjoined-

　　'Take her away to the red-room, and lock her in there.' Fourhands were immediately laid upon me, and I was borne upstairs.

　　--------------------------------------------------------------------------------